Added 1.7.0 version CHANGELOG (#916)
heremaps/here-data-sdk-cpp: CHANGELOG.md

## v1.7.0 (06/15/2020)

> **Common**

Reviewer: Missing is the compaction API exposed in DefaultCache and the compaction thread starting in background once the cache file size exceeded or is equal to the maximum allowed cache size.

* Fixed various style issues.
* Fixed a case when TaskContext could trigger cancellation after a successful operation.

> * `default_cache_expiration` added to `olp::client::OlpClientSettings`. Now users can control the time how long the downloaded data is considered valid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added the `default_cache_expiration` to `olp::client::OlpClientSettings`. Now, you can control how long the downloaded data is considered valid.
```

> * Added `OLP_SDK_DISABLE_DEBUG_LOGGING` CMake option. When enabled, the SDK does not print TRACE/DEBUG messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added the `OLP_SDK_DISABLE_DEBUG_LOGGING` CMake option. When enabled, the SDK does not print the `TRACE` and `DEBUG` messages.
```

> * Added the `default_cache_expiration` to `olp::client::OlpClientSettings`. Now, you can can control the time how long the downloaded data is considered valid. Once the data is expired, you cannot retrieve it, and it is gradually removed from the cache when new data is added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added the `default_cache_expiration` to `olp::client::OlpClientSettings`. Now, you can control how long the downloaded data is considered valid. Once the data is expired, you cannot retrieve it, and it is gradually removed from the cache when new data is added.
```

> * Added `compression` setting to `olp::cache::CacheSettings`. The flag is passed to the leveldb and used to enable or disable the snappy compression.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added the `compression` setting to `olp::cache::CacheSettings`. You can now pass the flag to the LevelDB to enable or disable the Snappy compression.
```

> * Added `compression` setting to `olp::cache::CacheSettings`. The flag is passed to the leveldb and used to enable or disable the snappy compression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added `compression` setting to `olp::cache::CacheSettings`. The flag is passed to the underlying database engine and used to enable or disable the data compression.
```

> * The `olp::cache::DefaultCache` read operation changed. As a result, the number of memory allocation decreased, performance increased.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Changed the `olp::cache::DefaultCache` read operation. As a result, the number of memory allocation decreased, and performance increased.
```

> * The `olp::cache::DefaultCache` read operation changed. As a result, the number of memory allocation decreased, performance increased.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `olp::cache::DefaultCache` read operation changed. As a result, the number of memory allocation decreased and performance increased.
```

> * A new request type `OPTIONS` is added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added support for the HTTP `OPTIONS` request in `olp::http::Network`.
```

* The LRU eviction now evicts expired elements first. The eviction time decreased.
* Removed the retry code from `olp::http::NetworkCurl`, the retry is performed by `olp::client::OlpClient`.

> * Added a prewarm helper method to `olp::client::OlpClientSettingsFactory`, used to perform dns-prefetch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added a prewarm helper method to `olp::client::OlpClientSettingsFactory`. You can use this method to perform DNS-prefetch.
```

> * Added a prewarm helper method to `olp::client::OlpClientSettingsFactory`, used to perform dns-prefetch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added a prewarm helper method to `olp::client::OlpClientSettingsFactory`. This can be used to perform DNS prefetch and TLS preconnect for certain URLs that are widely used by the clients, e.g. account and lookup.
```

* Enabled certificate validation in `olp::http::NetworkCurl`.

> * Fixed a crash that could happen during cache initialization.

Reviewer: Please elaborate on the crash: when, why, what was fixed.

**olp-cpp-sdk-authentication**

> * `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` class now handles the concurrent token requests correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` class now handles the concurrent token requests correctly.
```

> * `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` class now handles the concurrent token requests correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` class now handles the concurrent token requests correctly by blocking all requesters until the already triggered request completes. This will make sure that only one token is requested at the same time.
```

> * `IntrospectApp` and `Authorize` APIs now use `backdown_strategy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `IntrospectApp` and `Authorize` APIs now use `ExponentialBackdownStrategy` internally in case of an 5xx HTTP status code.
```

> * `olp::authentication::AuthenticationError` class is replaced by `olp::client::ApiError`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `olp::authentication::AuthenticationError` class is deprecated and will be replaced by `olp::client::ApiError`. It will be removed by 12.2020.
```

* `SignInClient` method in `olp::authentication::AuthenticationClient` functionality switched to `TaskContext`.

> * Added a fallback mechanism for `SignInClient` when the system time is wrong, the server time returned from the server is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added a fallback mechanism for `SignInClient`. Now, when the system time is wrong, the server time is used.
```

* The `olp::authentication::ActionResult` class changed. Permissions are now represented by `olp::authentication::Permission` class.

> * `use_system_time` flag in `olp::authentication::Settings` is now enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `use_system_time` flag in `olp::authentication::Settings` is now enabled by default.
```

> * `use_system_time` flag in `olp::authentication::Settings` is now enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `use_system_time` flag in `olp::authentication::Settings` is now enabled by default. This means that by default system time is used for token requests.
```

**olp-cpp-sdk-dataservice-read**

> * Module resolve services in a single request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Module now resolves all service APIs for a specific HRN in a single request.
```

* The number of logs produced by the component is reduced.
* The same concurrent LookUp API requests are merged into a single HTTP request.
* The same concurrent `GetBlob`, `GetVolatileBlob` API requests merged into a single HTTP request.
* The same concurrent `QuadTreeIndex` API requests are merged into a single HTTP request.

> * Added a new `ListVersions` API to `olp::dataservice::read::CatalogClient`. It is used to get the catalog versions information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Work In Progress** Added a new `ListVersions` API to `olp::dataservice::read::CatalogClient`. It is used to get the catalog versions information.
```

> * Added a new `GetAggregatedData` API to `olp::dataservice::read::VersionedLayerClient`. Used to retrieve the tile data if it exists or the nearest parent tile data. This API used for tile-tree structures where children tile data aggregated and stored in parent tiles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added a new `GetAggregatedData` API to `olp::dataservice::read::VersionedLayerClient`. You can use it to retrieve tile data (if it exists) or the nearest parent tile data. You can use this API for tile-tree structures where children tile data is aggregated and stored in parent tiles.
```

Author: I've used the @andescu comment.

> * Added a new `GetAggregatedData` API to `olp::dataservice::read::VersionedLayerClient`. Used to retrieve the tile data if it exists or the nearest parent tile data. This API used for tile-tree structures where children tile data aggregated and stored in parent tiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Work In Progress** Added a new `GetAggregatedData` API to `olp::dataservice::read::VersionedLayerClient`. Used to retrieve the tile data if it exists or the nearest parent tile data. This API should be used for tile-tree structures where children tile data is aggregated and stored in the parent tiles.
```

## v1.7.0 (06/15/2020)

**Common**

* Corrected various formatting to be compliant with the coding style.
* Fixed the issue with `olp::client::TaskContext`. Now, it does not trigger cancellation after a successful operation.

> * Added the `default_cache_expiration` added to `olp::client::OlpClientSettings`. Now, you can can control the time how long the downloaded data is considered valid. Once the data has expired it will not be returned to the user upon requests and gradually removed from the cache when new data is added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added the `default_cache_expiration` to `olp::client::OlpClientSettings`. Now, you can can control the time how long the downloaded data is considered valid. Once the data has expired it will not be returned to the user upon requests and gradually removed from the cache when new data is added.
```

> * Added the `default_cache_expiration` added to `olp::client::OlpClientSettings`. Now, you can can control the time how long the downloaded data is considered valid. Once the data has expired it will not be returned to the user upon requests and gradually removed from the cache when new data is added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added the `default_cache_expiration`  to `olp::client::OlpClientSettings`. Now, you can can control how long the downloaded data is considered valid. Once the data is expired, you cannot retrieve it, and it is gradually removed from the cache when new data is added.
```

* Added the `OLP_SDK_DISABLE_DEBUG_LOGGING` CMake option. When enabled, the SDK does not print any `TRACE` or `DEBUG` level log messages.
* Added the `compression` setting to `olp::cache::CacheSettings`. You can now pass the flag to the underlying database engine to enable or disable the data compression.

> * Added the `Compact` API to `olp::cache::DefaultCache`. It is used to optimize the underlying mutable cache storage.

Reviewer: Please also mention that there is a thread starting to compact in the background once the fs size of the cache exceeds the specified maximum allowed size.

* Changed the `olp::cache::DefaultCache` read operation. As a result, the number of memory allocation decreased, and performance increased.
* Added support for the HTTP `OPTIONS` request in `olp::http::Network`.
* The LRU eviction now evicts expired elements first. The eviction time decreased.
* Removed the retry code from `olp::http::NetworkCurl`. Now, retries are performed by `olp::client::OlpClient`.

> * Added a prewarm helper method to `olp::client::OlpClientSettingsFactory`. This can be used to perform DNS prefetch and TLS preconnect for certain URLs that are widely used by the clients, e.g. account and lookup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added a prewarm helper method to `olp::client::OlpClientSettingsFactory`. This can be used to perform DNS prefetch and TLS preconnect for certain URLs that are widely used by the clients. For example, accounts and lookup.
```

> * Added a prewarm helper method to `olp::client::OlpClientSettingsFactory`. This can be used to perform DNS prefetch and TLS preconnect for certain URLs that are widely used by the clients. For example, accounts and lookup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added a prewarm helper method to `olp::client::OlpClientSettingsFactory`. This method can be used to perform DNS prefetch and TLS preconnect for certain URLs that are widely used by the clients. For example, accounts and lookup.
```

> * Possible crash fixed in `olp::cache::DefaultCache`, which could occur during initialization in the spurious case when the expiration value was not null terminated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Possible crash fixed in `olp::cache::DefaultCache`. The crash occurred during initialization in the spurious case when the expiration value was not null-terminated.
```

**olp-cpp-sdk-authentication**

> * The `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` class now handles the concurrent  by blocking all requesters until the already triggered request completes. This will make sure that only one token is requested at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` class now handles the concurrent by blocking all requesters until the already triggered request completes. This will make sure that only one token is requested at the same time.
```

> * The `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` class now handles the concurrent  by blocking all requesters until the already triggered request completes. This will make sure that only one token is requested at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*The `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` class now handles the concurrent by blocking all requesters until the already triggered request completes. It verifies that only one token is requested at the same time.
```

> * The `IntrospectApp` and `Authorize` APIs now use `ExponentialBackdownStrategy` internally in case of an 5xx HTTP status code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `IntrospectApp` and `Authorize` APIs now use `ExponentialBackdownStrategy` internally in case of a 5xx HTTP status code.
```

* `olp::authentication::AuthenticationError` class is deprecated and will be replaced by `olp::client::ApiError`. It will be removed by 12.2020.
* Switched the `SignInClient` method in the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationClient` functionality to `TaskContext`.
* Added a fallback mechanism for `SignInClient`. Now, when the system time is wrong, the server time is used.
* Changed the `olp::authentication::ActionResult` class. Permissions are now represented by the `olp::authentication::Permission` class.

> * The `use_system_time` flag in `olp::authentication::Settings` is now enabled by default. This means that by default system time is used for token requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `use_system_time` flag in `olp::authentication::Settings` is now enabled by default. Now, system time is used for token requests by default.
```

**olp-cpp-sdk-dataservice-read**

> * Module now resolves all service APIs for a specific HRN in a single request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The module now resolves all service APIs for a specific HRN in a single request.
```

* Reduced the number of logs produced by the component.

> * Merged the same concurrent LookUp API requests into a single HTTP request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Merged the same concurrent Lookup API requests into a single HTTP request.
```

* Merged the same concurrent `GetBlob` and `GetVolatileBlob` API requests into a single HTTP request.
* Merged the same concurrent `QuadTreeIndex` API requests into a single HTTP request.

> * **Work In Progress** Added a new `ListVersions` API to `olp::dataservice::read::CatalogClient`. You can use it to get the information on catalog versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Work In Progress** Added a new `ListVersions` API to `olp::dataservice::read::CatalogClient`. You can use it to get information on catalog versions.
```

> * **Work In Progress** Added a new `GetAggregatedData` API to `olp::dataservice::read::VersionedLayerClient`. Used to retrieve the tile data if it exists or the nearest parent tile data. This API should be used for tile-tree structures where children tile data is aggregated and stored in the parent tiles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Work In Progress** Added a new `GetAggregatedData` API to `olp::dataservice::read::VersionedLayerClient`. You can use it to retrieve tile data (if it exists) or the nearest parent tile data. Use this API for tile-tree structures where children tile data is aggregated and stored in parent tiles.
```
